## What happened?

In the summer of 2016 the MIT administration announced its intervention into the Senior House community, citing low graduation rates and concerns about illegal drug use. The administration barred freshmen from living in Senior House during school year 2016–2017 and appointed a turnaround committee in response.

At the end of the 2016–2017 school year, the administration decided that, due to “serious and unsafe” behaviors occurring in Senior House, all current residents were to be summarily ejected and replaced by a freshman program called [Pilot 2021.](http://mitguidetoresidences.mit.edu/map/pilot-2021-senior-house) See Chancellor Barnhart's email to residents [here](saveseniorhouse.mit.edu/letter.html).

## How this hurts our community and damages the mission of MIT.:
- Students recognized their own responsibility to address these issues and made sincere proposals for change that were summarily dismissed by the administration.
- [The statistics are misleading](https://chancellor.mit.edu/sites/default/files/MITGraduationRates-2008-2015.pdf): Many students take longer to graduate because of personal issues that correlate with the abundance of students from at risk socioeconomic backgrounds. 
- The idea that Senior House has a drug problem came from 1) unethically used survey data, 2) a very low response rate, somewhere around only 30 people (source) even responded to the survey, and even fewer people reported drug use.
- Ripping residents from their community of support is not only dangerous, but wouldn't get rid of any problems; it would simply sweep it under the rug. This signals that MIT administrators care more about their public image than they do about the actual health and happiness of students.
- Senior House does not condone the use or distribution of drugs. The incident in house that prompted probation for the entire house, the cancellation of our annual alumni reunion (Steer Roast), and now depopulation, only involved a handful of Senior House residents. It is unfair and unprecedented to destroy a whole community of residents and alumni because of the actions of a few residents in house. 
- Residents who have not been found guilty in a COD proceeding have no reason to be barred from entering their own community.
- Creating a new freshman dorm program without consulting DormCon or getting any student input at all is wrong, especially because students from across MIT consistently oppose the idea of freshman-only housing.
- Administrators claimed they would keep the “positive aspects of senior house culture,” but getting rid of student’s emotional support animals, removing public art work, firing experienced GRTs (Graduate Resident Tutors) and replacing them with RPMs (“Resident Peer Mentors”), replacing residents with freshmen, forcing previous residents to fill out an insulting application for reentry into their own home, and the Pilot 2021 program go against not only senior house culture, but MIT dorm culture as a whole.
- In particular, firing Senior House GRTs and not allowing student input into the hiring process for new GRTs destroys the bonds that help create a community. Student input in this hiring process ensures that the GRTs fit with the particular academic and emotional needs of a dorm, and that they earn the trust and confidence students need in a mentor.
- Pilot2021 is offering meal kits at $9 per meal. This is marketed as "a more economical price." This is very out-of-touch with student budgets when you consider that this is the [average cost per meal](http://livingwage.mit.edu/metros/14460) for an adult that is working a full time job. 
